Blurb::Pareto set optimization
Description::
In the pareto set minimization method (\c pareto_set), a series of
optimization or least squares calibration runs are performed for
different weightings applied to multiple objective functions.  This
set of optimal solutions defines a "Pareto set," which is useful for
investigating design trade-offs between competing objectives.  The
code is similar enough to the \c multi_start technique that both
algorithms are implemented in the same ConcurrentMetaIterator class.

The \c pareto_set specification must identify an optimization or least
squares calibration method using either a \c method_pointer or a \c
method_name plus optional \c model_pointer.  This minimizer is
responsible for computing a set of optimal solutions from a set of
response weightings (multi-objective weights or least squares term
weights).  These weightings can be specified as follows: (1) using \c
random_weight_sets, in which case weightings are selected randomly
within [0,1] bounds, (2) using \c weight_sets, in which the weighting
sets are specified in a list, or (3) using both \c random_weight_sets
and \c weight_sets, for which the combined set of weights will be
used.  In aggregate, at least one set of weights must be specified.
The set of optimal solutions is called the "pareto set," which can
provide valuable design trade-off information when there are competing
objectives.

Topics::
Examples::
Theory::
Faq::
See_Also::	
